>>And welcome to Secrets, the
Energy and Harmonics Revolution
conference.
I'm Dr. Chet Snow and I'm
your host this morning.
As you can hear, those
that have the whole set,
I am doing better and I
really appreciate that.
Actually due to
new energy devices
and working with the
biomagnetics and electrics
of the human body.
So I guess I'm a walking guinea
pig for some of the people
that I talk about here,
and I appreciate that.
This morning, Sunday morning,
we have the great pleasure
of having back
with us once again
William Henry from
Nashville, Tennessee.
I can't recall how long
I've known William,
but it's been 15 years.
Something like that
because I remember
when William's very first
book had just come out,
and he came to
Sedona, and my wife
and I saw him and helped
him at a lecture at what
used to be a real estate
building, if I recall now,
and there were about 50 seats.
And now, look.
William's going,
really, around the world
and speaking to literally
hundreds of people at a time
and has a myriad of
books and tapes based
on the incredible
research that he's doing.
His most recent
project, which he's
going to talk to you
about this morning,
is "The Secrets of
the US Capitol,"
and I like to look at it as what
Dan Brown could not or would
not reveal.
So without more ado,
I want to welcome
William Henry to the podium.
Thank you.
>>Good morning, everybody.
Morning, everybody.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Chet.
Yeah.
My presentation
today is going to be
based on my book,
"Freedom's Gate, The Lost
Symbols in the US
Capitol," and I
want to express my thanks
to Chet and Kallista.
It's with their assistance
here, having me here last year,
that really supported
the research.
We did the tour in the spring,
continued the research,
and then the book came
out in August of 2009.
And it is, according to
Dr. Barbara Wolanin, who's
the curator of the US Capitol,
this is a historical work.
The guides are working
this material now.
They're incorporating it into
the tours of the Capitol.
And what they've told
me is that they're not
able to look at the
Capitol the same way
again after looking
at this material.
It's so powerful to them.
This is me with my
co-author, Dr. Mark Gray.
He's a chiropractor
from Philadelphia.
We worked on this
project together,
and we're standing
in one of the--
in a painting of the "Apotheosis
of George Washington," which
we'll talk about in detail,
and part of the sacred geometry
that we discovered in the
painting that just really
started raising
eyebrows in the Capitol
because it's as if there's
been a metaphysical time
lock, if you will,
on this painting.
It was painted in 1865 by the
Italian painter, Constantino
Brumidi, and its secrets had
remained unknown until Dr. Gray
and I revealed them for
the first time this year.
And then we had the great
fortunate occurrence
of having, what
I think of as one
of the greatest literary
synchronicities of all time.
Lo and behold, Dan Brown
incorporated or tuned
into some of these very
same ideas at the same time,
but Dr. Gray and I had
published our stuff a long time
before Dan Brown, so.
But touche to Dan
Brown because he
is reaching millions of people
now with this information.
So we're going to get into it
here by talking about the US
Capitol as a dome of ascension.
You tune in to the
news every night,
you look at the US
Capitol, most people
can recognize the building.
Most don't have any
clue about the artwork
that is in the dome
of the US Capitol
and that, in fact,
it was conceived
of as a temple, in fact a
Temple of Enlightenment,
and that it is actually
a dome of ascension.
So before we get
into the Capitol,
let's just take a
brief tour here of some
of the domes around the world
that the Capitol is actually
a mirror of.
It doesn't matter whether
we're at the Hagia Sophia,
or if we're at the
Palladium, or we're
at the dome of Saint
Peter's at the Vatican,
if we're in the dome
here in Michigan.
If we're in any church
dome around the world,
domes are always places of
connection with the Divine.
Domes are considered
to be wombs.
They're wombs of
transformation, and when
we enter a dome, no
matter where it is,
it is considered a sacred space.
A sacred space that connects
us with the higher energies
of the heavenly realms.
And when we start to look
at the United States Capitol
as a sacred space,
we begin to recognize
that this was the true vision
of the founding fathers,
that they, in fact, viewed
it as a dome of ascension.
And what I've been
looking at is that,
when we take out
the word ascension
and put in the word stargate,
that the concepts just directly
correspond so that,
in fact, when we're
looking at some of these domes
and connecting with the Divine
being, most often--
and of course
in Christian churches
you're going to see Jesus
in the dome-- that
what we are doing
is tuning our consciousness
into this higher realm,
and the dome itself is
a model of what we today
think of as a
stargate or a portal
into the heavenly realms.
This is the state
Capitol in Maine.
This is the state Capitol
in Texas, in Austin.
This is the state
Capitol in Michigan.
And when you're
in these places--
this is the Temple of
Science in Washington, DC--
when we're looking
up into these domes,
we're recognizing that we are,
essentially, divine beings
and these domes
encode the secrets
of how to awaken that
divinity within us.
And especially the dome of the
United States Capitol, I think,
is the ultimate dome
anywhere on the planet that
encodes the secrets
of ascension,
and that's what we're
going to talk about today.
So let's talk about how
the dome came to be.
The New High Dome was literally
constructed during the Lincoln
Administration.
During the Civil War,
funds had grown short,
and the Congress
thought that maybe we
shouldn't commit the funds
to constructing the dome.
But Lincoln insisted that this
New High Dome be constructed
as a symbol of the Union.
And I love this painting here.
It's by Ellen Cox.
It's in the house
wing of the Capitol.
It portrays Lincoln almost in
a magician-esque kind of pose,
literally willing that
New High Dome to rise.
And of course, it's
kind of poignant
because it was his
assassinated body that
was laid in the Rotunda of
the United States Capitol
that established that
site as hallowed ground,
even to this day.
We have photographs of the
construction of the New High
Dome during the early 1860's.
You see the pillars emerging.
You see the dome itself
beginning to rise,
and it had been an
incredibly magical time.
I mean, you're thinking the
backdrop of the Civil War here.
It was a bread
factory at that time,
and it was an
infirmary at that time,
and it had to have been
just a powerful feeling
to be there to watch
this dome rise.
Until finally, in 1863,
the Dome is completed,
the statue of freedom,
the goddess of America
is placed on top of
the Dome, and it's now
sitting for all eyes to see
as the great white mountain
that we see in DC today.
This is the painting
that was done
by Thomas Ustick
Walter, the Philadelphia
architect, a watercolor.
When Congress saw this painting,
they were mesmerized by it
and they instantly
committed the funds
to the construction of the dome.
Thomas Ustick Walter, of
course, was intimately
familiar with sacred
geometry, knew
what he was doing when
he was constructing
the Dome as a sacred space
using sacred geometry,
and intended,
literally, for this
to be a rival to Saint Peter's
dome, to Saint Isaac's dome.
All of these were inspirations
for the creation of the New
High Dome on the Capitol.
And it was Walter's
interior revision
that introduced this monumental
mythological painting that's
suspended over the Oculus,
or the eye, of the dome.
The painting is called
"The Apotheosis of George
Washington," and what we've
done in "Freedom's Gate"
is gone into the
Library of Congress
and collected some
of the earliest
photos of "The Apotheosis."
This happens to be from the
1870s, this is from the 1930s.
And then when Dr. Wolanin
became curator of the Capitol
in the 1990s, her
first mission was
to restore "The
Apotheosis," to clean it up.
And so today, we
are privileged to be
able to look up into the dome,
from the view of the Rotunda,
at this magnificent painting in
all its just incredible glory.
The word apotheosis is Greek.
It means to deify, to raise
from a man to a god man,
and what we see in this painting
is George Washington surrounded
by angelic beings
sitting on a rainbow,
and he's also surrounded by
other mythological figures whom
we'll talk about
in just a moment.
This is an amazing painting,
because it literally
is saying that
Washington is a deity,
and that is perhaps a strange
thought to us in our time.
But during Washington's
time, as we're going to see,
it was a common thought that
Washington had actually raised
from the dead,
that he was in fact
a deified being, a Christ-like
being, if you will.
That's a very
strange thing for us
to kind of contemplate today,
that Washington was thought
of as a messianic
figure, as the savior
of the country, as he was
called by Brumidi, the painter.
But that is, in fact, how
they view of Washington
during his life.
And when we start to look
into this painting, I mean,
there have been analyses
done on this painting
by Dr. Wolanin and
others and they point out
that Washington is portrayed
as a deified being.
They leave kind of
the rainbow out of it,
they don't talk too much
about the angelic beings
that around him,
and they certainly
don't discuss in detail
the pagan gods that
surround Washington, but once
you start to get into this,
you realize that, wait a minute.
This painting, "The Apotheosis
of George Washington,"
could well be one of the
greatest alchemical icons
ever in human history,
and that's my perspective,
and that's what we're
going to discuss later.
This, of course, is
the goddess freedom.
She's the freedom fighter.
She is the defender
of spiritual liberty.
She's one of my favorite
characters in "The Apotheosis."
She wears the get up worn by
all the spiritual warriors,
as noted in the
"Book of Officiants."
She wears her
helmet of salvation,
indicated by her starry crown.
She holds the sword of
god, the shield of god.
She wears the breast
plate of righteousness.
And if we could
see her feet, I bet
she's wearing the
sandals of peace.
This is the garments,
the clothing,
worn by all the high
spiritual beings,
and tells us the freedom is,
in fact, a defender, not just
of earthly freedom,
but she's also
intended to be
the representative
of spiritual freedom as well.
This is Poseidon on his
seahorse, holding his trident,
or his pitchfork.
This is Aphrodite beside him.
All figures drawn from Greek
mythology or Roman mythology.
This is Mercury, who's one of
the primary gods of America,
holding the Caduceus
wand, a symbol that used
is repeated more than a dozen
times inside the United States
Capitol.
When you look at the
caduceus from the alchemical
perspective, we're
told that that is
the symbol for transformation.
And so here we have Mercury,
the god of travelers,
the god of spiritual travelers,
the god of transformation
and alchemy, handing
a bag of gold
to Robert Morris, the financier
of the American Revolution.
And when you look at this
and you put it together
and you say, well,
if Mercury, or Hermes
as he's called in Greece, is
the god of alchemy, what kind
of gold exactly is he handing
to Robert Morris, the financier
of the revolution?
You put that together
with the research
I've done in southern France, in
Rennes-le-Chateau in particular
where Benjamin
Franklin was studying,
where Thomas Jefferson was
studying, where the Knights
Templar were manufacturing
white powder gold,
and you have to ask
the question, again,
what are we talking about here?
Is it possible that we're
talking about alchemical gold?
And so here's Mercury's
Caduceus wand,
again all over the
United States Capitol.
A very powerful symbol.
This is Hephaestus here, the
god of smith craft and alchemy.
He's called Vulcan in Rome, he's
called Enki by the Sumerians.
Zecharia Sitchin, in
his reinterpretation
of the Sumerian myth says that
Enki-- Hephaestus-- was the god
who crafted the human body.
And so you wonder, what did
Brumidi know about this figure,
and what message might be
in this painting concerning
human origins and the
potentials within us
to transform into
deified beings,
and to achieve true freedom
and true liberty, which
is equated by Jefferson
with enlightenment.
Here's Hephaestus once again.
Then we have Persephone
gathering flowers.
This is America standing beside
Ceres holding her cornucopia.
Another important Roman
goddess, a symbol of fertility.
And this is Athena,
another goddess of wisdom
and a goddess of alchemy,
also a goddess of war,
who was standing beside
Benjamin Franklin.
So that's a brief
introduction to the painting.
And what I've just shown
to you is about as far
as most Brumidi scholars
go, about as far
as most Capitol scholars go.
And that's not a slight
to these scholars.
It's just that, again, we feel
like there might have been
like a metaphysical time lock on
this painting that was awaiting
the time-- and the time
is now-- for the secrets
of this painting to be revealed.
And so let's go into a
little bit of a review here
of the presentation I
gave here last year,
which is what we're
going to see is
that all the material
I'm going to present
in the next few minutes somehow
found its way into Dan Brown's
book, "The Lost Symbol."
And after Dan Brown's book,
"The Lost Symbol" came out,
people started
emailing me asking me,
was Dan Brown at the
Secrets conference.
Was his wife in the audience?
Because your thought
processes and your comments
about "The Apotheosis" somehow
made their way into his book.
And so here's "The American
Rite" in a brief fashion.
My friend and alchemical
researcher, Arion Love,
points out that the seven
vignettes that we just
looked at can be seen as
representing the seven
transformations of
alchemy reflected
in the emerald
tablets of Hermes.
Now, this is very important
because, when Brumidi
is studying in Rome, he is a
student of the work of Raphael,
the great Renaissance painter.
He was also a student of
the work of Michelangelo.
And both Rafael and
Michelangelo were students
of the "Emerald Tablet."
They were privy to the new
alchemical secrets that
had recently been
decoded, and they
were masters of sacred
geometry and knew
how to encode these
secrets in their paintings.
And so when we look at
Brumidi from this perspective,
we see that he has access,
in the Vatican archives,
to all these astonishing secrets
that Michelangelo had access
to, that Rafael had access to,
and he utilized that knowledge
and put it inside the
dome of the US Capitol.
Those seven levels of
transformation in this painting
are-- to alchemists-- are
calcination, dissolution,
separation, conjunction,
fermentation,
distillation, coagulation.
And what Brumidi's vision was
all about in "The Apotheosis",
which is shared by
the founding fathers,
is that the living wisdom
in which everyone exists
within the same light of evolved
consciousness and cosmic order
is possible in America.
America as a goddess
is equated with Mott,
the Egyptian goddess of Divine
order and cosmic knowledge.
And this was part of the
vision of the founding fathers
was to create not
just a physical place,
but a psychological space where
people were free to evolve.
Where people were
free to transform.
Where the church, where the King
were completely off our backs,
and we were in a place where
we could fully transform
and awaken ourselves as beings.
And they knew that if
individuals would follow
this path of transformation,
this path of awakening,
that on the planetary
level, we could create
an alchemical awakening
called coagulation,
which is a return to
the Garden of Eden,
this time on a higher level
in tune with the Divine mind.
And that was the
inspiration, I believe,
behind Brumidi's
painting in the Capitol,
as well as the original vision
of the founding fathers.
Esoterically, this
alchemical symbolism
can be seen as the embodied
liberation of the human soul
through the alchemical process.
That's what these
painters were all about.
That's what Brumidi was trying
to create in "The Apotheosis."
As we're going to see, he
was very successful in this.
And so when the alchemists
are talking about these seven
steps, they portray
them as seven steps
going into the holy temple
with the phoenix rising
above the temple.
And that is the model that
Brumidi is working from.
And in fact, what he's seeing is
that this cave that we see here
in this alchemical painting
was actually the cave
that he was going to paint
his alchemical masterpiece in.
The US Capitol
Dome is that cave.
It is that womb of
transformation, symbolically.
Brumidi knew that and
incorporated this symbolism
in to this remarkable painting.
This is a photo that
I took in the Rotunda,
of looking up at
"The Apotheosis."
You see the Apotheosis is
surrounded by 72 stars.
Very important number,
that's a processional number.
And when you talk
with Graham Hancock,
you talk about-- with
any of these researchers
into the ancient world and
you mention the number 72,
suddenly their eyes
light up and they
recognize that putting
72 star around this
was not by coincidence.
And when I first gave this
presentation in Pennsylvania
and I put up this painting
and featured these stars,
I remember Dr. Gray was in
the audience, and I said,
we have Washington sitting
on a rainbow here surrounded
by stars, which I prefer
to call a stargate.
And I'll never forget he raised
his hand and ask the question,
are you saying that the Rotunda
of the Dome of the US Capitol,
is a stargate?
That's exactly what I'm saying.
It is a temple of ascension.
It is a portal, that's the
word Dan Brown settled on.
Instead of using stargate,
he used the more--
perhaps the more
comfortable word, portal.
And ultimately, this
symbolism that we're
going to be exploring here
is all about transfiguration
and ascension.
And I decided to call
this "The American Rite"
because it is our right,
as Americans, to achieve
this ultimate transformation
and to achieve this ascension.
The unfoldment of the
inner life energy that
triggers this ascension is
also known as Kundalini,
and that's exactly what
Mercury's staff symbolizes.
When we come over here and we
look at the liberty cap worn
by young America here,
that symbolizes the birth
of the inner spirit body.
It symbolizes awakened
consciousness.
When we come back
over here to Athena,
the spear that she shakes
symbolizes the activation
of that life energy.
She was called the spear shaker.
In fact, many believe that
Sir Francis Bacon, who
had the vision of America
as the new Atlantis,
took his name from
Athena when he called
himself William Shakespeare.
She was the spear shaker,
and what Bacon knew
is that it's all
about activating
this dormant energy within us.
And so when Athena
starts shaking her spear,
it's time to watch out
because the inner life,
the inner knowledge, is
beginning to awaken within us.
And so here she is in the
detail sitting-- or standing
beside Benjamin Franklin,
who's at the other end
of the rainbow.
Ultimately, the Capitol
Dome symbolizes the cranium.
It symbolizes the human head.
In fact, the word "dome"
is slang for the head.
And so what these artists,
and these painters,
and these architects
knew is that when
you're inside the
Dome of the Capitol,
you're actually inside a
model of the human head.
This is a photo of me
in the Capitol visitors
center showing the
cutaway of the dome
and pointing to
"The Apotheosis,"
and when they built the
Capitol visitors center
and put this in
there, I thought this
was one of the greatest mystery
school keys I've ever seen.
And Tom Fontana, who is the
communications and marketing
director at the Capitol,
gave me permission
to have my photo taken here.
Normally you can't
do that, so it's
kind of special photo to me.
But the main reason I show it
is because, to me, it hopefully
hammers home this idea that
when you're in the dome,
you're in a model of the dome.
You're in a model
of the human head.
And when you're looking up
through "The Apotheosis",
through the eye of
the dome, you're
looking up into
the heavenly realms
as if you're looking
through your own third eye.
That's the way that
this place is read,
and this is what the artwork
inside actually reflects.
What we're really
talking about, though,
when we're talking
about the dome,
I believe, is the pineal
gland, because that
is where all the enlightenment
activity takes place.
The whole shooting match here
is to activate the pineal gland
to get to release the
secretions within it that
contain the secrets to begin
the process of transmuting
and transforming our bodies.
And so when we're
in the dome, I'm
thinking we're not
only in the head.
We're specifically
referencing the pineal gland,
and we're trying to get
that activation to happen.
This is a photo through
an electron microscope
of the human pineal gland.
And you can see it's covered
with these calcite micro
crystals.
The telephone companies, the
wireless phone companies,
are the ones that are doing this
research because they recognize
that our pineal
gland is basically
a wireless transmitter.
And the idea is
that they're going
to take the cell
phone out of our hand,
put it in our tooth
for a little while,
but they ultimately
recognize that we already
have a cellphone
inside of our brain.
It's the pineal gland.
And if we could learn to
decalcify the pineal gland
and let it work as
this radio transmitter,
that perhaps it can receive
these transmissions coming
from the center of the galaxy.
Or even perhaps
elsewhere in the galaxy.
And of course, when
Jacob is wrestling
with the angel at Peniel,
that's a reference
to our mystic anatomy.
We're talking about
awakening our higher selves
by activating the pineal gland.
And what we see over and over
again in the Capitol imagery
is that we're talking about
this process of transformation.
And then we're talking about
going to the high mountain
and receiving the
higher energies,
we're actually talking about
climbing to the high mountain
within us of our pineal gland,
wrestling with our inner angel,
activating our higher
spiritual potential,
and then achieving
enlightenment.
And that is true freedom.
And that is what is modeled
inside this dome of the United
States Capitol.
And so when we see the
Dome, we're seeing,
actually, our human
dome, our cranium.
And when we see
freedom up on top,
she's the spiritualized being.
She's the freedom fighter who's
in the spiritual realm for us.
She has put on all the
garments of the angelic realm,
and she is there beckoning
us to achieve true freedom
and true enlightenment.
So let's shift gears
just for a little bit
and let's talk about the
US Capitol as a temple.
When you talk about the
Capitol as a temple,
most people have no awareness
that the United States
Capitol was conceived as a
temple by the founding fathers.
This is the inscription
that's in the house
wing of the Capitol, it
was put there in the 1830s.
It says, "We have built
no temple but the Capitol.
We consult no common oracle
but the Constitution."
Now when they built the
Capitol visitors center
and opened it in
December of 2008,
some of the conservative
centers and Congressmen
got kind of up in
arms were like, what
do you mean calling
this place a temple.
What are you talking about?
Well obviously they
hadn't read history books.
They don't-- they're
members of this temple,
but they don't know what
they're actually working
in, and that's a big problem
because then they don't behave
as if they're in
a temple either.
Then it says, "--we
consult no common oracle
but the Constitution."
An oracle is a divinely
received revelation.
An oracle is a sacred
spot of real estate
where these divine
messages are received,
and what they're telling us here
is that the US Capitol is not
only a temple, but our
Constitution is an oracle.
I remember Senator DeMint from
South Carolina getting all up
in arms when he heard this
because he said, well,
what about the Bible.
What about God?
How come there's no reference
to Jesus Christ in this temple?
And the reason was is because
the founding fathers were not
Christians.
That is a total misconception.
They were diests.
They worshipped all the
gods and wanted people
to be free to worship all the
gods, not one particular god.
They worshipped
the deity, and they
believed that the
Capitol was a temple
and that our Constitution itself
was a divinely received oracle.
And so when you're in
the old Senate room
and you see the
goddess justice, who's
modeled after the
Egyptian goddess, Maat,
she holds her scales of justice
her sword is aimed downward,
indicating peace.
Then we see this angel over here
with the sunburst over its head
holding the United
States Constitution.
I mean, there are
some-- I don't go
so far to say that
the Constitution
and the Declaration of
Independence were channeled,
but the belief is
firmly in place
that these are divinely
received manuscripts.
These are divinely
received oracles.
And so Senator DeMint was
saying, we need to do more.
We need to know the true history
of the United States Capitol.
We need to know
what was going on
in the minds of the
founding fathers
when they were writing
the Declaration
and the Constitution,
and certainly signing it.
And so that became a big driving
force in the presentation
"The American
Rite", which became
the book "Freedom's Gate," was
to answer this question once
and for all.
What were the motivations
of the founders as
concerned to the
United States Capitol?
Is this just another building?
Would it have been OK
on 9/11 if those planes
had demolished the Dome of
the United States Capitol?
And the answer, of
course, is no it would not
have been OK because
this is one of the most
sacred spaces on the planet.
And again, the problem
is that, if you're not
treating this as
a sacred space--
I mean Dick Durbin came out
just two months ago and said,
the banks own this place.
How do you feel about that?
The way I feel about it is I
say, if you don't like that,
then you have two choices.
One, do nothing.
Or do what Jesus did when
he went into the temple
and found the money
changers running the temple.
You throw their asses
out on the street.
And that's what has to happen.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you.
Yeah.
And we do that by going into
our temple as individuals.
It is not only our right
to go into this temple
and to worship.
It is also our responsibility
to go into this temple.
The folks at the
Capitol don't like it
when I repeat Senator
Harry Reid's comments
when they opened the US
Capitol when he said,
we welcome you to
the People's Temple.
That raised some eyebrows.
But then he went on to say that
he's happy that the new Capitol
visitors center is
open, because now we
won't have to smell the
tourists on the hot summer days.
That's how they view you.
That's how they think of you.
You're the cattle coming
back into the barn.
And what I say is,
let's get more cattle
coming into the bar.
If we make them uncomfortable
with our presence,
then we need more of us
going into the Capitol
and really stinking
up the place.
Right?
[APPLAUSE]
Yeah.
Thanks.
And I mean that
with all due respect
because that is the
only way I believe
change is going to happen.
As long as you are an abstract
concept to these people,
and they don't have
to look you in the eye
as they're stealing you
blind and enslaving you
with a debt that is never
intended to be repaid,
then they're going
to just continue
doing what they're doing.
But if you're coming in there
and, to use their terms,
stinking up the place, then
it's a whole new ball game.
So let's continue.
Congressman James
Wilson of Pennsylvania
prophesied in 1787
that America's
new federal government
would, quote,
"lay a foundation for
erecting temples of Liberty
in every part of the earth."
That was part of the vision
of the founding fathers,
that they would build
the temple in DC,
and they would duplicate this
temple throughout the world.
An 18th century poet,
Benjamin Russell,
envisioned the Capitol's
Dome in his tome "The Birth
of Columbia."
Published on
December 3, 1788, it
reads "Behold the FEDERAL
DOME majestic rise.
On lofty pillars reared whose
ample base on firm foundations
laid, unmoved shall stand 'til
happy your unnumbered circles
run.
The TEMPLE OF CELESTIAL
LIBERTY who designs from heaven
to bless our happy plains."
There it is right there.
That is the common
belief in 1788,
just before they lay
the cornerstone in 1793,
that the United States
Capitol temple was
a temple of celestial liberty,
and that its designs came
from heaven, just like
all the ancient temples.
Why don't we learn
this in first grade?
Why don't we learn this
in elementary school?
Why don't we teach
our kids this?
Well, in fact, one
of the greatest
honors that I've had in
writing "Freedom's Gate,"
I was in Los Angeles, and
a woman came up to me,
and she told me that she
teaches school in Watts.
And she asked me for
complimentary copies
of the book so she could use
as a textbook in her class.
It's like, that's where
the rubber meets the road.
So touche to her.
Thank you.
Thomas Jefferson, who's called
the Capitol's chief visionary,
called it the first temple
dedicated to the sovereignty
of the people.
Sovereignty, in this case,
equals enlightenment.
It was a temple dedicated to
the enlightenment of the people.
Because Jefferson
equated liberty
with knowledge and knowledge
with enlightenment.
This was what it was all about.
And an anonymous essay of 1795
described the Capitol building
as a temple erected to liberty.
Specifically, the founders
of the US Capitol temple
likened it to Solomon's
Temple in Jerusalem.
Here's how we get that.
Here's Maryland grandmaster
Joseph Clark on September 18,
1793 at the langue
of the cornerstone
or the Capitol saying, "I have
every hope that the grand work
that we have done was dedicated
to the like work on that ever
memorable leader of our temple,
the master of our temple,
the grandmaster Solomon."
So literally at this
cornerstone ceremony,
they are dedicating this temple
to their grandmaster Solomon.
Then we have President
Adams comes along a couple
years later saying, "it would be
unbecoming the representatives
of this Nation to assemble for
the first time in this solemn
Temple without looking up to the
Supreme Ruler of the universe
and imploring His blessing."
The solemn Solomon's Temple?
You look how their words
just start to flow together,
and you recognize or begin
to appreciate their mindset.
Sol Om On.
Those are the three
ancient names for the sun.
And the United States
Capitol is a re-creation
of Solomon's Temple.
Now, this is kind
of controversial
because, of course, you've
got the Jews, the Christians,
and the Muslims waiting in
Jerusalem for Solomon's temple
to be rebuilt, and that's
the trigger for Armageddon.
And the message here is, you
don't have to worry about it.
It's already been rebuilt. It's
been rebuilt in Washington DC.
It's the United States Capitol.
It is Solomon's Temple.
So when we start
looking at models
of Solomon's
Temple-- for example,
this model is in the
Philadelphia Masonic Museum--
we see that Solomon's
Temple, while they really
aren't sure what
it looked like, we
know that at the time of
Jesus and Mary Magdalene,
it was thought to have had
a tall tower in front of it.
What's fascinating
about this is that,
when the masons and the
Vatican starts getting involved
and starts recreating
Solomon's Temple,
they show it clearly
as a domed Temple.
In fact, this is one of the
key paintings in the Sistine
Chapel.
When the cardinals and others
assemble to elect a new Pope,
they go into the Sistine
Chapel, and they stay in there.
It becomes an apartment until
they elect the new Pope.
The person that gets to sleep
under this painting, which
is called "Christ Giving
the Keys to Saint Peter,"
by Perugino this is considered
to be the fortunate place
to sleep.
And what we see is Jesus
giving the keys to Saint Peter,
establishing the authority
of the Catholic Church,
and behind him is
Solomon's Temple.
And it's clearly portrayed
as a domed temple
sitting on an octagon.
Now, you would think that
when the Vatican commissioned
such a painting, they would
be interested in some accuracy
here, especially
since this becomes
one of the favored paintings.
And so it seems as if
somebody in the Vatican
agrees with the masons that
Solomon's Temple, as it existed
at the time of Jesus
and Mary Magdalene,
had a domed roof on it.
In fact, it was an octagonal
temple with a domed roof.
So here's the United States
Capitol in the 1820s,
and here it is beside Solomon's
Temple in Perugino's "Keys"
in the Vatican.
They're identical buildings.
This is Raphael's painting of
"The Marriage of the Virgin,"
Joseph and Mary being married.
Raphael is obviously cued
into the same kind of concept
because he portrays Solomon's
Temple as a domed Temple
sitting on a polygonal platform,
once again establishing it
as a dome.
This is Jerusalem's
Dome of the Rock,
built between 687 and 691.
It's considered hallowed ground.
Jews venerate it as the site
where Solomon's Temple stood.
Specifically, the site where the
Ark of the Covenant was placed.
This is looking up into
the Dome of the Rock,
and this, of course, is the
place where Muhammad ascended
into the heavens atop
his winged horse,
al-Buraq, again
linking the concept
of the dome with ascension.
This is a diagram of the Dome
of the Rock with the Shetiya
rock in the very center.
So here you see the
octagonal pattern
of the Dome of the Rock,
the circular center
with the sacred rock upon
which the Ark of the Covenant
was supposed to have sat.
And here's a representation
of the Ark of the Covenant.
What's fascinating about
this is that Carl Sandburg
called the United States
Capitol the Ark of the American
Covenant.
And so clearly pointing
back to this idea
that the US Capitol is
connected with Solomon's Temple.
So on the left is the diagram
of the Dome of the Rock,
and on the right is Thomas
Ustick Walters diagram or plan
for the United States Capitol.
What does Thomas
Ustick Walter envision?
An octagonal platform
with a circular dome
resting on top of it.
It's a perfect match.
There's no question in my mind
that Thomas Ustick Walter,
the great Philadelphia
architect,
is telling us that the
dome of the US Capitol
is modeled after
Solomon's Temple.
In fact, it is the
third Solomon's Temple.
Here's actually the plan
of the dome, the painting
by Thomas Ustick Walter.
Here what I did,
just for fun, is
I took the diagram of
the Dome of the Rock
and superimposed it
over the Apotheosis.
What do you know?
That's coincidence, isn't it?
>>Sure.
>>Yeah, sure.
Right.
Exactly.
The US Capitol is
Solomon's Temple.
So let's look at Washington
now, sitting on the rainbow.
We have a temple.
We need a deity
in that building,
and that deity is
George Washington.
Another hint of
the sacred geometry
here, this is Solomon's
seal, perfectly superimposed
over the Apotheosis.
Each of the six figures that
surround George Washington
become the points
of Solomon's seal.
Coincidence?
No.
Another reiteration
of this same message.
This is Solomon's Temple.
This building is a temple.
It's a temple of ascension,
and it is the place
that ultimately we will learn
the secrets of ascension.
Calling the Capitol a
temple is more than poetic.
US Capitol has numerous
architectural and other
features that
unquestionably identify it
with ancient temples,
including stone construction,
an underground
entrance, chapels,
an image of a deified
being, George Washington,
numerous images of
heavenly beings,
religious imagery,
symbols and inscriptions,
divine proportions, sacred
geometry, massive columns,
palpable spiritual
energy, acoustic trickery,
terrifying guardians
that today carry
automatic weapons,
mystic visitors,
closed doors, private
members, secret chambers,
and an orientation to the sun.
It's a temple-- it's a Solar
Temple, to be specific--
and it is a private
temple, and you
are reminded of that every
time you're in the Capitol
because you'll see
doors constantly
that say members only.
And in fact, as my friend
Jordan Maxwell has said,
well, people ask me, well,
why is this a private temple?
How come people don't know
that this place is a temple,
and it has all this sacred
geometry and this imagery?
And Jordan's answer is the
best I've ever come up with.
His answer is, it's
none of your business.
This does not concern you.
You're not a member.
And I think he's right.
And that attitude
is prevalent here.
But at the same time,
we have the opportunity
to shift that attitude,
and the only way we shift
it is by going into this
temple and utilizing it
for the purpose that
it was created for,
which is a temple of ascension.
So let's talk about
the Dome itself.
When we cross
cultures, we recognize
the dome as a cosmic symbol.
It is akin to or equivalent
to the stupa of India.
So here's a stupa in India.
Here's the dome of the
United States Capitol.
The stupa is a place of rebirth,
according to the Buddhists.
A stupa also creates a
spiral or a vortex of energy
that spins around
a central axis,
and that's exactly what we find
in the Dome of the US Capitol.
The palpable spiritual
energy that you
feel when you're in
the Rotunda is there
because that was what that
place was designed to do.
And there is that vertical
axis, beginning with Washington,
up on the ceiling in
front of this open sun
gate on a direct
vertical line down
in the center of the
Rotunda is a gold dot.
One story beneath
that is the crypt.
That's what they call
it, the crypt, which
is very fascinating, because
civic buildings don't
have crypts.
Temples have crypts.
Churches have crypts.
The US Capitol has a crypt.
Why?
Because it's a temple.
One story beneath the
crypt is Washington's tomb,
all on this vertical line.
Who's buried in
Washington's tomb?
Nobody.
It's empty.
Why is Washington's tomb empty?
Well, because he's
on the ceiling,
because he resurrected.
He's just like Jesus,
whose tomb was also empty.
That's the message.
This is a temple of
ascension, and all
of the artwork, all of the
imagery you see within it
reflects this idea
that we're talking
about a temple of ascension.
The same concept-- just to
kind of get a visual on this--
is modeled in the
Reichstag Dome in Berlin.
The new Reichstag Dome.
And so when you go into
the Reichstag Dome,
you see this vortex
of energy, and that
is exactly what you feel
when you're in the Rotunda.
I was there just
recently with the BBC,
and the guards got all
nervous when I laid on my back
and I looked up.
And I'm looking up
into the Apotheosis,
and I almost
couldn't get back up.
I mean, I'm on my back thinking,
oh, this is just great.
I've got a BBC camera
right in my face,
and I've got the guards
starting to move in on me,
and I can't get up because it's
just got this energy pouring
right through me.
It was absolutely a
remarkable experience,
and it reminds me
of what you feel.
What I felt is what you see
here in the Reichstag Dome.
This incredible vortex that
is created in this place.
I'm sure and convinced that the
people that go to Washington
are probably
essentially good people.
But the problem is that they're
not spiritually developed.
They're not
emotionally developed.
They'll take an intern into the
back room of the White House
at the drop of a hat.
They're not mature people by
any stretch of the imagination.
And they live in
the lower chakras.
They're focused on
pure materialism.
They're focused on power.
And when they come
into a place like this,
they're no match for what
they experience in this place.
And it's no wonder that
many of these politicians
get just intoxicated by
the power of this place.
They think it's about them.
It's not about them.
It's about what this
place represents,
and what America
represents, and they
have forgotten what
America represents
as a place of awakening,
enlightenment,
and higher consciousness.
And hopefully, they'll
start getting the message.
So we're looking up
into the Dome here.
We're looking up
into the vortex.
Today is November 22, 2009.
It's 46 years after President
Kennedy was assassinated,
and this is President Kennedy
laying in state in this vortex.
Now let's just think about this.
We're in a vortex.
We're in a dome of ascension.
You have a quarter
million people
that have lined up on
Constitution Avenue,
and come in, and they
circumnavigate this body,
and they're all putting
spiritual energy
into that being.
What do you suppose
the effect of that is?
That is what I believe this
building was designed for.
It is a temple of ascension.
This is President
Ford laying in state.
And you can just
imagine the spirit
of this being recognizing that,
OK, this is like a code book.
In Egypt, they did this
in the temples too,
so that when the Divine
spirit of the pharaoh
came out of his body at death,
he would look around the walls
and go, oh yeah, that's
what I'm supposed to do.
I'm supposed to go
through that gateway
and into the heavenly realms.
And this is exactly what you
see modeled in the ascension
dome of the US Capitol.
So you've got the
president laying in state,
and you've got this whole idea
of the stargate or the portal
modeled right up above us.
So the United States
Capitol, according
to my research and the research
I've done with Dr. Gray,
says that this is an
alchemical temple.
This is a temple of ascension.
When the alchemists do
a diagram such as this,
they're telling us that
we follow the steps.
We climb the seven steps.
One, two, three, four,
five, six, seven.
All good children go to heaven.
The idea is that if
we can learn to decode
the book, the ascension manual,
the code in the dome of the US
Capitol, we, too, can ascend
into the heavenly realms
and achieve true freedom.
Well, of course, Dan Brown
comes along and presents
his book, "The Lost Symbol."
What I had said in
"The American Rite"
is that US Capitol is a
portal-- it's a stargate.
That "The Apotheosis
of George Washington"
contains the key
to enlightenment.
And what it points to
is the pineal gland--
that we need to learn to
awaken the pineal gland.
And I invited people,
in that presentation,
as I'm doing today, to come
to the Capitol with me.
Lay on your back and absorb
the energy of this place
and recognize that when we're
looking up at that painting,
we're looking up at one of the
greatest alchemical paintings
ever.
It's a code book, it's
a manual, telling us
how we ascend and achieve
true freedom and true liberty.
So I'm surprised when "The
Lost Symbol" comes out
and Dan Brown has his
character, Robert Langdon,
go into the Capitol in
search of a secret portal.
He goes into the Rotunda and
looks up at "The Apotheosis"
and says, that's the key
to higher consciousness.
And then he has Robert
Langdon lay on his back
and look up into "The
Apotheosis" and say,
this painting contains the
key to higher consciousness,
and it's all about
the pineal gland.
And it's like, boy this is
really sounding familiar.
You know?
Because this has
never been revealed
before except in my work and
that work I did with Dr. Gray.
And the other thing
that Dan Brown
put in this book
that is very key
says that there's
a consciousness,
he calls it noetics,
that we can all tap into.
That we can access this
higher consciousness,
and we can unify our minds and
bring about positive change.
Well what I'm here
to tell you is
that I think that's absolutely
true, and that Dr. Gray
and I are living embodiments
of what Dan Brown says
is going on in the
United States Capitol.
We have that proof because
we published this work
long before Dan Brown's
book was published.
And I'll take this
one step forward.
Five times a day, Muslims turn
towards Mecca and pray together
and it unifies the
Muslim consciousness.
What I'm suggesting
is that what would
happen if three times a day,
Americans turned to the east
and directed positive intentions
towards this Liberty Bell
that we call the Dome
of the US Capitol
and get this thing
ringing and vibrating
at a higher spiritual level.
I think that would drive the
rats right out of that ship.
You know?
That's the plan.
Thank you.
My intention is to work with
Dr. Dean Radin and others
who know about this
consciousness and how it works
and develop meditations that
will get this bell ringing
at that higher vibration.
That's our only hope, I think.
That's how we're going to
run the money changers out
of this temple.
So let's dive into
"Freedom's Gate"
and look at what Dan Brown
didn't get because he
didn't read this book.
[LAUGHING]
What's really going on here?
So this is George Washington
on the rainbow surrounded
by the angelic beings.
He's portrayed as a deity.
Specifically,
Washington is sitting
in front of an open sun gate.
In the ancient
Egyptian tradition,
the sun was considered a tunnel.
A star tunnel, a sun
tunnel, or a stargate.
The way to get to heaven
was through the sun.
The sun was the way, the
truth, and the light.
And then Christianity came along
and inserts Jesus in the sun
gate and says that Jesus
is the way, and the truth,
and the light.
Well when Brumidi's
coming from the Vatican,
he decides that he's going
to put Washington on there
as the American Christ.
Now a little bit of back story.
Constintino Brumidi was a
Vatican painter, very, very
popular painter at the time.
He was refurbishing some
of the works of Rafael,
doing repair work
in the Vatican.
Then in 1848, there's
a revolution in Rome.
The Roman people
decide, wait a minute.
We want more choices.
We don't just want to
be Jews and Christians,
we want to be free to
worship any god that we like.
And of course, the Vatican
was opposed to that.
So what happens is there's
a revolution, Brumidi
sides against the Vatican, and
when the Pope regains power
in 1848 Brumidi is
imprisoned and sentenced
to 18 years in prison.
What happens is that
the Jesuits come over
from New York, the Black Pope as
this is person's called, comes
to the Vatican and makes a
deal with the Pope saying,
if you'll let us take
Brumidi back to America,
we'll utilize him
painting churches
and other religious buildings.
And so the Pope
says, fine but he
says that Brumidi is free to go
but his wife and children are
going to stay here with us.
So Brumidi has a choice.
Rot in prison, or go to
America, the land of the free,
the only land he said where
true liberty is experienced
on the planet or
lose his children.
And so he makes the decision
to come to the United States,
and his wife and
children stay behind.
So you can start to see
Brumidi's mindset when
he comes to the United States.
He's wanting true freedom
and true liberty, which
you couldn't experience
in Rome, but he's
also got a little bit of
a chip on the shoulder
because essentially his wife
and kids are being held hostage
by the Vatican.
Why is that?
The reason I believe that
this is because Brumidi
knows something.
Brumidi knows something
extremely important,
and the Pope just
doesn't want to kill him.
He wants to keep him alive
and try to use him as best as
possible, but also recognize
that if his wife and children
are being essentially
held hostage
that Brumidi might possibly kind
of keep tight lipped about what
he really knows.
So he comes to the United
States and gets this opportunity
to paint the Capitol, and we'll
look at some of his other work
here in a moment,
but I just wanted
you to have that kind
of mindset as you're
looking at the strange
picture of Washington
sitting on a rainbow
with his purple robe on.
This is Raphael's "La
Disputa" in the Vatican,
which shows the
resurrection of Jesus.
It shows Jesus enthroned
in his heavenly realms.
And Rafael, rather, has Jesus
right in front of the sun gate.
Then Brumidi gets this chance to
paint Washington, lo and behold
he's got him also in front of
the same open sun gate, also
on the rainbow now,
wearing this purple robe.
Well when you look at Christian
images of the resurrected
Jesus, we learned that he,
too, wears the purple robe.
The purple robe is
considered to be--
or the purple toga is considered
to be the Divine garment.
And when you see Jesus
wearing that purple garment,
it's a symbol of his divinity,
a symbol of his ascension.
Here's Jesus delivering
the Beatitudes.
This is the siren
and the fishermen.
We've got the purple robe here.
We've got Jesus in his
transfiguration wearing
the purple robe.
Jesus walking on water
wearing the purple robe.
Washington with the purple robe.
And the reason why is because
what Brumidi's going to do
is essentially tell us
that George Washington
is the American Christ.
We not only have Brumidi
with the purple robe,
but he's also got
him on the rainbow
just like the resurrected Jesus.
When you see Jesus in
throne in Christian art,
he is sitting on
his rainbow throne.
When we come back to
George Washington, not only
does he have the purple robe,
but he's on the rainbow.
He is the American Christ.
He is a deity.
Washington has resurrected.
He is now a deity.
Brumidi's not
saying worship him,
but he is saying that
George Washington has
achieved true enlightenment
and true liberty.
He has resurrected.
Now those images
that I just showed
you, that was all brand
new news to the Capitol.
They had never made
that connection before
in the Capitol
Historical Society
or in the architect of
the Capitol's office.
It just wasn't in their mindset.
It was kind of shocking for
them to see that and undeniable
that that's what's going on.
But then I took it
one step further
and said, well when we look at
the Tibetan images of what's
called "The Great Perfection"
or "Mystic Rapture,"
the Tibetans will portray
their enlightened ones,
or their awakened ones, in a
spiral, or vortex, of rainbow
energy because the
Tibetans believe that when
we achieve ultimate
enlightenment
that we spin ourselves
into a vortex of higher
vibrational energy and
disappear into another realm.
We have the ability to travel
and toggle back and forth
between the material
and immaterial realms,
and we live our lives
as these rainbow beings,
or portrayed as these
rainbow body beings.
And that's what they call
it, the rainbow body.
And I believe that when we
see Jesus on the rainbow,
and the Tibetans in the rainbow
vortex, it's the same concept.
The way that we
resurrect ourselves
is by achieving
this rainbow body,
by spinning ourselves into this
higher dimensional or higher
vibrational being.
In fact, the Gospel of Philip,
one of the Gnostic gospels
says, "The lord
rose from the dead.
He became as he was, but
now his body was perfect."
This is the Gnostic concept of
salvation, we become perfect.
And that-- perfect
isn't something
we can get from a
Phoenix plastic surgeon.
You can't pluck down 25
grand and become perfect.
Although, people try to sell
us that that's possible.
Perfection, in the
mystic tradition,
is achieving the rainbow body.
Becoming another
dimensional being.
Then the Gospel Philip goes
on to say that Jesus possessed
flesh, but this was true fesh.
Our flesh isn't true.
Ours is only an
image of the true.
When we have true
flesh, we have achieved
the rainbow body, which is
why the resurrected Jesus is
portrayed with the
rainbow body around him,
or the rainbow rings.
It's all about this
Tibetan rainbow body
tradition, which
the Tibetans tell
us doesn't come from Earth.
It's taught in 13 star systems
in addition to our own.
Very important point we'll
come back to in a moment.
So here's the resurrected
Jesus in the rainbow body.
There are numerous names
for the rainbow body.
Every sacred tradition around
the planet has a term for it.
The Divine body, the rainbow
body, the diamond body,
the immortal body, the
perfect body, the ultra human.
There are name, after
name, after name,
and one of the big key ways that
we identify this-- or beings
that have achieved
the rainbow body--
is that they wear
a cloak of light.
Either a bright white garment
or a garment composed of stars.
This goddess right
here is America.
She's on the east
pediment of the Capitol.
Her garment is completely
covered in stars,
and she also wears a star
crown with the freedom cap on.
She has achieved
ultimate liberty
and ultimate enlightenment.
And the reason why I
believe the founding fathers
chose this image is
because they knew
that true freedom
and true liberty
has to do with awakening this
higher consciousness within us.
And that's why they wanted
the dome of the US Capitol
to be a Dome of ascension.
I was in the-- with
Chet and Kallista
in a group back in the spring.
We went to the George
Washington Masonic memorial
in Alexandria, Virginia, we
went into the Knights Templar
chapel, and here we see this
powerful resurrection image.
We see Jesus emerging
from the crucifixion
as if he's blasting
through a stargate.
We see the rainbow
color all around him,
and we see this white light.
A thin veil of white light
surrounding his body.
That indicates that
he has achieved
this ultimate enlightenment, the
light body, the rainbow body,
and goes to this idea
that I've been working on
for a dozen years or so that
the crucifixion was actually
a stargate event in which Jesus
transforms or transfigures
himself into a being of
light and then shoots himself
through that linen
shroud that we today
call the Shroud of Turin.
And it's an after
effect, or a relic,
of his transformation,
or transmutation,
into a beam of light
showing that he
has achieved the rainbow body.
So I equate these images.
You can take the Tibetan
image and the image
in the Knights Templar chapel
at the Washington Memorial.
It tells me they're all
on the same page here.
They recognize
the same concepts.
And so when the Tibetans tell us
that we've achieved the rainbow
body, they will
portray their Lamas
in a ring, a vortex, or
a vibration of rainbow
colored imagery
and show them then
having the ability to
literally travel to stars.
They are biological
beings now that
may well be these biological
craft that some people
experience at certain sites.
And so then when you go
to Christian churches,
again, you'll see Jesus
in his resurrected form,
just like the Tibetans,
in the rainbow ring.
That's because he's
achieved the rainbow body.
And you and I, that's what
we're supposed to be doing.
We're supposed to
be learning how
to achieve the rainbow body.
But unfortunately,
there's a little group
called the Catholic Church
that came in and destroyed
all of these teachings
and instead implemented
another teaching.
But there are those that know
that this is what is within us.
That we are in a
pupil phase here,
we're in a cocoon type phase,
we're in an intermediate phase,
and this is where we're going.
The rainbow body.
And so when we come back,
and we see Washington
on the rainbow in
this ring of stars,
I equate all these images.
It says that Washington is a
model for the rainbow body.
Just like the Tibetans,
just like Jesus,
they have all achieved this
level of enlightenment.
And Brumidi is
telling us that if we
want to achieve true
liberty and true freedom,
we've got to do
what Jesus has done.
We've got to do what
the Tibetans have done.
And in fact, America is
a psychological space
and a physical space where
we are able to do this.
So when we see this William
Holman Hunt painting here
of Jesus in his rainbow body,
then we come back over here
and we take a look at this
famous painting of George
Washington by Gilbert Stuart.
This is the one
that Dolley Madison
rescued from the British
in the White House.
We see Washington standing
in this long coat,
we have a Caduceus leg on the
table here but behind him,
we see this rainbow.
What's that doing there?
To me, there's only
one explanation.
It's this mindset again
that Washington is
revered as a Christ-like being.
And just like
William Holman Hunt
shows Jesus with the rainbow
ring outside his body,
Gilbert Stewart is
also showing Washington
with the rainbow
extending around his body.
Again, Jesus on
his rainbow throne.
This idea of Washington
as an ascended being,
or having the ability
to ascend-- I mean,
people email me
saying, that's insane.
How can you say that?
And my response is,
I'm not saying that.
These artists are saying that.
From Washington's own era,
this is what they thought.
You happened to have gone to an
elementary school in America,
probably in the
1960s or 1970s, when
all this has been sanitized.
You never learned any of
this because somebody fed you
a bunch of bulls--- about, you
know, apple pie, and baseball,
and the American way,
and all this garbage.
And this is what
America was set up for,
was as a place of ascension
and enlightenment.
And so look at this image.
This is Washington
rising from his grave
just like Jesus being
lifted into the heavens
by angels on a beam of light.
This is from 1794.
Then we come over
to this image here.
Sorry.
I guess George has a message.
He just wants to
talk a little bit.
This is in the Metropolitan
Museum of Art in New York City.
Another painting
called "The Apotheosis
of George Washington," the
deification of Washington.
What we see is
Washington, again,
being lifted into the
heavens through the sun
gate or the stargate.
Another powerful
ascension image.
Finally, we have
this other image.
This one is in
the Newark museum.
We see Jesus on
his throne up here.
And then down below on
a direct vertical axis
is George Washington
being prepared
to be lifted into the heavens.
This is how people viewed
Washington in his time.
And so when Brumidi comes
along 50 years later,
he's still in this mindset.
It's all about
ascension and Washington
as an apotheosized or
deified being, once again,
being lifted by angels
through this portal
here, in rays of light,
with Mount Vernon being
left in the distance back here.
When Lincoln dies, who's
waiting for Lincoln?
Lincoln's body is laid
in state in the Rotunda.
He resurrects into
the heavenly realms.
Who's there waiting for him?
Jesus?
No.
This is a postcard that
was printed and handed out
at Lincoln's funeral.
George Washington is there
to meet Abraham Lincoln.
Why?
Because they believed
Washington had become a deity.
They believed Washington
embodied all of these ideas
about ascension
and resurrection.
That's what we're talking
about when we come back
here and start to look
at "The Apotheosis"
from the perspective that we're
supposed to look at it from.
I go to the Capitol frequently,
and I watch the tours.
And here's the typical tour
when you walk into the Rotunda.
And there's "The Apotheosis
of George Washington."
And that's as much
as you get when
you're doing that whole tour.
But now, hopefully,
they're starting
to stop and talk about what's
actually going on here thanks
to Dan Brown, and hopefully
thanks to some of the work
that we've been doing.
And so when I go in
there, and I'm looking up
into the Rotunda, I
recognize that we are truly
in one of the most sacred
spaces on the planet,
and we owe it to this
man, Constantino Brumidi,
for presenting to us an
astonishing representation
of all the ancient
mystery school teachings.
This is Raphael's
"Loggia" in the Vatican.
As I mentioned, Brumidi
studied Rafael in the Vatican,
did repair work
on Raphael's work,
and then came to the
United States Capitol.
This is Raphael's
painting of Plato.
"Transfiguration."
Just kind of giving you a flavor
of what Raphael's work looked
like.
So that when Brumidi comes
to the United States Capitol
from the Vatican in 1852, and
he looks up and he sees this,
he must recognize,
wait a minute,
I've seen this building before.
This dome looks
just like this dome.
This, of course, is the Dome
of Saint Peter's, and this
is the Dome of the
United States Capitol.
And so the dome is newly
completed, and-- excuse me,
the other Capitol extensions
are newly completed.
And Captain Montgomery Meigs
is looking for a painter
to come into the Capitol.
There's the the Vatican.
There's United States
Capitol, and it's obelisk.
And he's looking for painter
to come into the Capitol
and paint the newly
created corridors.
So here's the Raphael rooms
in the Vatican corridors,
and here's the Brumidi rooms
in the United States Capitol.
Dr. Barbara Wolanin, in
her book about Brumidi,
acknowledges that
they're virtual carbon
copies of one another.
So not only is the exterior
of the United States Capitol
a mirror image of the
Vatican, but the interior
of the United States
Capitol is also
a mirror image of the Vatican.
What we believe
is happening here
is that both the Vatican and the
US Capitol are solar temples.
And both of those
temples triangulate
with Solomon's Temple.
And that's why they
mirror one another.
They're all reflective of this
original concept of creating
this temple of ascension.
So here, again, here's Brumidi
in the Senate corridors,
and here's Raphael
in the Vatican.
They're virtually identical.
More Brumidi in the
Senate corridors.
They're stunningly beautiful.
Brumidi also painted the
frieze in the Rotunda,
various images of
American history.
He had a technique,
through painting,
make it look like they
were 3D sculptures.
Really interesting.
Very powerful cartoons,
including this Aztec Sun Stone
that's in the frieze
of the capital.
Brumidi had gone to
Mexico City and seen
the Sun Stone attached
to the cathedral wall,
made a diagram of it.
And when he came back
and had the opportunity
to paint in the
capital, he wanted
to portray true American,
ancient American, history.
And Meigs would only
let him go this far.
Brumidi wanted to go far, far
deeper into American history
and present images.
But he started here with
the Aztec Sun Stone,
which, of course, is the
very basis for the whole 2012
prophecy.
Back, looking up.
So now let's go
into this painting
and see what we actually
see here with Washington,
again, on the rainbow,
surrounded by these dancing
women with Fame and Liberty
on either side of him,
in front of the open Sun Gate.
And here, these
dancing figures, they
have stars on their heads,
which is kind of interesting.
We'll get to that in a
moment, about the importance
of those stars.
So once again, let's look at
a few of these figures that
surround George Washington.
We have Poseidon
on his seahorse.
Once again, we have Freedom
in her spiritual garments.
Then we have Mercury-- God
of Transformation, Hermes
and Greece, both in ancient
Egypt, Poseidon, once again,
on a seahorse.
Just love that seahorse.
Hephaestus, God of
Smithcraft and Alchemy.
We have young
America beside Sirius
holding the cornucopia,
young America
wearing the liberty cap, the
cap of higher consciousness.
We have Athena,
the spear shaker,
standing talking to Benjamin
Franklin at the other end
of the rainbow.
And what Dr. Gray
and I discovered
was that, first of
all, those five gods
are the five pagan gods
the Vatican had spent 1,600
years trying to get rid of.
[LAUGHTER]
It's like, what's Brumidi doing?
Not only has he portrayed George
Washington as a deified being,
specifically as a
Christ-like being,
but Brumidi has also resurrected
those five pagan gods
that the Vatican's been
trying to get rid of.
I told you he had a
chip on his shoulder
when he came over
here, you know-- hold
my wife and children hostage?
You know, prevent me
from living my life
the way I want to live it?
What's the matter
with you people?
I'll get revenge.
And I'm not saying he
had revenge on his mind,
but you can clearly see that
that's a good possibility.
But what we also discovered
is that not only are
those the five pagan gods the
Vatican's trying to get rid of,
but specifically, they're the
five pagan gods of alchemy.
And not only that, but
Brumidi has arranged them
in the pattern of a pentacle,
the ultimate alchemical symbol
of transmutation
and transformation.
I told you, this is the
ultimate alchemical icon,
or alchemical painting,
perhaps of all time.
This is what Brumidi
discovered in the Vatican
as he's studying Raphael
and Michelangelo who
were privy to the alchemical
secrets that were first being
decoded during the Renaissance.
Brumidi knew all this.
And he got the
opportunity, finally,
to paint it in the dome
of ascension, the dome
of the United States Capitol.
But there's even more than that
encoded within this painting.
Before we explore
that, let's acknowledge
the Tibetans teach that the
rainbow body is constituted
by the five pure lights.
They're often associated
with the five colored
Himalayan rainbow-- white,
yellow, red, green, and blue.
The five pure lights are
understood as pure light energy
and are considered the
most sublime essence
quality of the
classical elements--
namely space, air,
water, fire, and earth.
So when the Tibetans
portray their Lamas
in the rainbow body,
what they're saying
is that they have mixed all the
alchemical elements of the body
and achieved ultimate
enlightenment.
And that is exactly what Brumidi
has done in the dome of the US
Capitol, is he has
clearly shown us
that the way that we achieve
true liberty and true freedom
and enlightenment is to
follow that Tibetan path
of the rainbow body, which
is also the path many
believe that Jesus followed
in his own Resurrection
and awakening.
Going forward, we find other
geometry inside this painting,
encoded within this painting.
The five points of the
pentacle open into 13.
There are those 13
star maidens that
surround George Washington--
the dancing girls
with the stars on their heads.
Think Brumidi is starting
to tell us something now.
He's wanting us to go forward,
go deeper into this painting
to open up the pentacle and
to see what's really there.
Keying on these
dancing girls really
created a mind expanding, or
mind blowing, revelation to me.
I wondered, you know,
when you're in the Capitol
and you're taking the
tour, they tell you
that these 13 star
maidens represent the 13
original colonies.
But I had a beef with the guide
the first time I went in there.
I said, well, how can that
be, because that's not
an earthly scene.
Washington's portrayed
as a resurrected being.
That's a heavenly scene.
Freedom is not an earthly being.
She's a heavenly
freedom fighter.
This is all of a heavenly
scene we're looking at,
so what could those 13 dancing
girls with stars on their heads
actually represent?
Well, I gave you
the clue earlier.
Remember what the Tibetans
said about the rainbow body?
It didn't come from this planet.
The rainbow body
teaching, they tell us,
is taught in 13 star systems
in addition to our own.
That's what I think these
13 star maidens represent,
are the 13 other star systems
where this rainbow body
teaching is taught.
And we are the 14th.
Now what that means
to me is that Earth
is a colony in a
federation of star systems
where this awakening,
resurrection, or ascension
teaching is taught.
And the Dome of the
United States Capitol
encodes that secret.
Now, when you go into
your ancient text,
you go into the Bible,
other sacred scripture,
you can start to create a list.
You can come up with Orion,
Ursa Major, Sirius, Cygnus.
That's four.
The Pleiades, five.
OK?
What they're telling
us here is that there
are eight other star systems
that know this teaching.
And we're all connected to that.
How's that make you feel?
>>Great.
>>Yeah.
Doesn't it?
It's like, OK.
Now we're talking a
whole other level here.
We're talking about beings
that are potentially
coming and going from these
star systems that are here
to awaken us and to bring about
this enlightenment teaching
to earth.
And the United States Capitol is
ground zero for that teaching.
And that's what my
research reveals.
So what is the name,
then, of that star
system, or that federation
of star systems?
I think Brumidi is telling us.
E pluribus unum.
Out of many, one.
Why not?
And the message here is that
these other star systems,
if we're all connected,
then we're all one.
That's the message of
stargate metaphysics,
that we're all connected.
All these star
systems are connected.
All these people are connected.
And if we're the weak
link, potentially,
in this chain or this
federation of star systems,
they're going to be sending
people here to bring us up
because you're only as
strong as your weakest link.
And that may explain why some
of these other civilizations
have such an interest in
what's going on, on Earth,
especially at this time.
And I think that, that is
the message that Brumidi
wants us to take here.
But there's another
message here from Brumidi.
When we go one
step forward and we
start to look at this pentacle
and look at the geometry,
we're led to an Italian
mathematician who Brumidi also
studied whose name
was Fibonacci.
We know him best for the
Fibonacci spiral, the Fibonacci
sequence of numbers.
But Fibonacci, through his
study of the five elements
and the sacred geometry
of those five elements,
also discovered
another profound piece
of sacred geometry, another
symbol of sacred geometry
called Metatron's Cube.
Metatron's Cube.
And when I superimposed
Metatron's Cube
over the Apotheosis,
what do you know?
It's a perfect match.
>>Synchronicity.
The six circles--
actually, Metatron's Cube
is composed of 13 circles.
The outer six circles
perfectly correspond
with the six figures, the
five pagan gods plus Freedom.
And then the interior
circles, of course,
correspond with the
dancing star maidens
and the interior aspect of it.
Then the ultimate
interior circle
corresponds with the Sun Gate.
What Fibonacci had said
about Metatron's Cube
and what sacred geometry
said about Metatron's Cube
is that it literally is
a gateway to ascension.
It literally is a gateway
to higher consciousness.
And what I believe
is that Brumidi
knew about the sacred
geometry of Metatron's Cube.
And it was probably
the ruling geometry
in the creation
of this painting.
He intended, through is
alchemical knowledge--
most of it derived
from the Vatican
and from Michelangelo
and Raphael
and certainly
Fibonacci-- he intended
to create this icon
of transformation,
knowing that if you could
connect with this painting
mentally, physically,
spiritually, and emotionally,
that it would begin to tune you
into this higher consciousness
and open up pathways within
your own consciousness.
The way these paintings work,
the way these icons work,
is that they literally activate
latent knowledge within us.
All of this is encoded
within our DNA.
And so when the icon makers
would create images of, say,
the transfigured
Jesus, what they knew
is that if we could
drop ourselves
into a state of deep
meditation, that such geometry
and such paintings would just
literally activate this higher
consciousness within us.
They viewed them literally
as a living gospel.
You didn't need words.
All you needed was the imagery
and the underlying geometry
would start to do the work
on you because basically,
all we are is walking geometry.
And so this is like
the software that
begins to transform the
hardware of our body.
Who is Metatron?
Metatron's an archangel.
According to one
school of thought,
he's Enoch, the
ancient wise man,
the ancient seer, who lived
before the Great Flood--
possibly in Atlantis-- and
who was taken to heaven by God
as a sole pure example of
the pre-flood civilization
and transformed into Metatron.
Enoch, Metatron is very
important in my work
because, as a
mythologist, I tell people
that the reason you want
to spend a lot of time
learning this lore,
learning this lingo,
and putting yourself
into this mind state
is because, as in the
example of Enoch and Elijah
and Mary Magdalene
and others, it's
hoped that one day you'll get a
visit from one of these higher
beings.
And they will interview you.
They'll take a look
inside and say, hey.
How are you doing?
You done with your Earth work?
Is your job done here?
If so, do you want a new job
at the next higher level?
And in Enoch's story, that's
exactly what happened.
He was taken to the
next higher level
and he was given a new job.
He became a janitor.
He literally sweeped up
around the throne of God,
the rainbow throne of God.
And then he was
sent back to Earth
for a time, delivered sacred
knowledge to his family,
and then returned to
the heavenly realms,
continued his janitor
work for a while,
and then he got a promotion.
He was given a
new job, guide, so
that any of the humans-- such as
us-- that got up to this level
would be able to
meet Metatron, and he
would be there as our guide.
And this is why Fibonacci
called his cube Metatron's Cube
because he literally believed
that Metatron's Cube itself
was the guide for
our consciousness
that would take us
into this higher realm.
In 3 Enoch, Metatron, or Enoch,
describes to Rabbi Ishmael
how he lived before
the Great Flood
and was transubstantiated
from mortal to angelic form.
Ishmael tells us
how "he had ascended
on high though seven
halls, or heavens, one
within the other"-- he's talking
about the chakras now, right?
Because remember,
we count the chakras
just like the steps
to the Capitol.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, all
good children go to heaven.
So we awaken these seven halls
or holes within us, or heavens.
We begin to see the vision
of the Merkabah-- the Divine
Chariot or the Throne of
Glory, which is often portrayed
as that rainbow throne.
So this is what
Brumidi is telling us,
is we've got Metatron's
Cube in here as our guide
to our consciousness.
And what he's ultimately
awakening within us
is this potential
that we all have
to transform ourselves
through the rainbow body
into these ascended beings.
"Then Enoch is
lifted into heaven
on one of these fiery horses, or
fiery chariots, in his Merkabah
and now can toggle back and
forth between the worlds.
Under the direction of the
archangel Michael and Gabriel,
Enoch grew in size until his
body filled the whole universe,
signaling a reversal
of the fall of Adam",
according to esotericists.
"He sprouted 72 wings"-- how
about 72 stars, one for each
of the 72 names of God?
How about 72 stars?
And how about 72 virgins,
exactly-- "36 on each side and
grew 365,000 luminous
eyes, indicating he
had become omniscient.
God made for him a garment
of glory, a light body,
and clad him in it.
In early traditions,
this garment
was considered a
light substance,
in which the inhabitants of
the high heavens appear."
And so again, this
is what Brumidi
has encoded in the dome of
the United States Capitol,
is that this is the
model we want to follow.
We all want to achieve this
state of enlightenment,
this state of ascension.
We want to achieve
the rainbow body.
And there are beings that
are there to help us.
And if we can meditate on the
geometry of Metatron's Cube,
it's going to be sort
of like making a phone
call to these beings.
Because it begins to tune us.
It puts us on their frequency.
And that's when we start to
get the help because we're not
going to do this ourselves.
Archangel Michael, when
Enoch got up there,
he poured oil on him.
And then when Enoch has
this oil all over his body,
suddenly he shines
like the angels.
So the message here is
while this sounds daunting,
spinning ourselves into a
vortex of rainbow body, rainbow
energy, we don't have
to do it all ourselves.
We just have to put
ourselves in a place,
in a position, where those
that are there to help us
will do that.
And what I'm saying
is that there
are beings from 13 star
systems that are here
to assist us in our ascension.
And the Dome of the US
Capitol is ground zero
for this process of ascension.
So one final remark about
Constantino Brumidi, the story
does have a Disney ending.
In 1870, the Pope
lost control of Rome.
One of Brumidi's
daughters is still living.
And she came to Washington DC.
And she was able to see her
father, and his masterpiece,
in the United States Capitol.
And he died shortly after that.
So here's a man I believe
that knew the ultimate secrets
of the Vatican.
You wonder what's in the
vaults of the Vatican,
what's buried in the secret
library of the Vatican?
All you have to do is go to
the United States Capitol
and see what that
ultimate secret is.
And I believe that Doctor Gray
and I, and now Dan Brown, we've
just begun to scratch the
surface on what is actually
in that Dome.
I think we're just
beginning to see that.
And what it's going to
take is for us to go there
and to claim that Dome.
We have got to own it.
And that is not only going
to create a process of change
in America, to get
these slave masters out
of here that want to put
trillions of dollars of debt
on top of us and
forever enslave America,
but it will ultimately lead
to the ascension of not just
our individual selves but
perhaps millions of people.
And that's the work that
we're all doing together.
So thank you very much.
I've enjoyed talking
with you guys.
Hope you have, too.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]